Gilles de Rais was the most vicious abuser of children in history. According to "Gilles de Rais", written by Roger Villeneuve in 1955, Gilles had a children's choir beside him sing in time with the dying gasps of the children he was killing. The 19th-century French novelist Joris-Karl Huysmans also portrayed him as a true vampire in his novel "La-Bas" (1891).

Brought to trial in 1440 on charges of child murder, sodomy, conjuring demons, sacrilege and heresy, Gilles de Rais confessed in detail how he had put young boys to death. First the boys were brought in and given good food and comfort for a while, and a boy who had grown beautiful beyond recognition would become Gilles de Rais's victim. The chosen boy, hands bound behind his back, was led by two burly men around the triple ring of castle walls and down to the cellar where Baron Gilles de Rais waited. The baron had blue eyes, blond hair and fine features, but his goose-fleshed skin and the shadows beneath his eyes betrayed his depraved life. Gilles had many ways of tormenting boys. In one, he had the kidnapped boy bathed clean, then had white powder put on his face like a woman's, rose rouge on his cheeks and red lipstick on his lips. Gilles made the boy, dressed as a girl, walk about the room, then approached and embraced him from behind. Then, as if with tenderness, he carried him to the bed and caressed him. At some moment Gilles would suddenly change, pinching and biting the boy's face and body. When the boy, overcome by pain, burst into tears and tried desperately to escape, Gilles held him with one arm, drew a hidden knife and stabbed him in the throat. He sat astride the fallen boy and watched with bloodshot eyes as the boy's face twisted in agony, and when the boy died he went on in a frenzy, hacking the limbs from the corpse with an axe and thrusting his hands into the wounds to pull out the entrails... In the end his cruelty left the boy no more than a lump of meat.


Gilles de Rais was a hero who fought hard for his country, second only to Joan of Arc, the holy maid of France's 15th-century struggle for national salvation. After retiring he became absorbed in alchemy, and as his savagery awakened he turned into a cruel murderer who brutally killed two or three hundred children; in the end he was burned at the stake. Even today in his homeland, mothers are said to hush a whining child by saying, "If you keep whining, the devil who serves Bluebeard will take you away."
