In the early 17th century, something astonishingly similar to the Gilles de Rais case of two centuries before took place in Hungary. The case that sent a tremendous shock through a Hungary already rife with superstition was the 1611 trial of Countess Erzsebet Bathory. Over ten years, dozens of girls were locked in the castle dungeon, horribly tortured and left to bleed to death. When a considerable number of girls from the area went missing, rumors began to spread. She was accused of abducting and torturing countless young girls from the villages around Csejte Castle, which stood on a hilltop in the Carpathian Mountains, the highlands of Hungary.
 
On December 30, 1610, Bathory's cousin Count Gyorgy Thurzo arrived at the castle at the head of a band of soldiers and cavalry. A blood ritual was just under way. Entering the castle, the count found dozens of corpses in the dungeon along with many victims still alive, their bodies covered with countless needle marks. As if even that had not satisfied the countess, many more girls were still waiting their turn. Contemporary records put the number of victims anywhere from 300 to 8000, though the true figure was probably closer to the former. As with the cases of Gilles de Rais and Vlad Tepes, there was nothing supernatural about the case of Erzsebet Bathory. That is, no one claimed the countess was one of the living dead. All accounts agree that drinking her victims' blood gave her tremendous pleasure. She filled a bathtub with her victims' blood and delighted in bathing in it. It is said that this sprang from her desire to keep her youth and beauty forever.

Because she was related to the royal family her life was spared, but the countess had to spend the rest of her days repenting her crimes in a room with every window and door sealed up. All her accomplices, however, were executed. After the countess died, the castle lay abandoned for a long time as a cursed place.

The case of Countess Erzsebet Bathory gave rise to all sorts of rumors and legends in the region. Many of these legends tell that even after death the countess kept appearing in search of the pleasure of blood, and at last became a vampire in the true sense of the word.
