A monster from Eastern Europe, an evil spirit said to leave its grave at night and suck the blood of the living. In English it is called a 'vampire', a word also used for the vampire bat. Belief in vampires goes back to remote antiquity, and the word vampire is thought to combine the Turkish 'uper' (sorcerer, witch) and the Lithuanian 'wempti' (to drink). In ancient Babylonia vampires were counted among hundreds of demons, and vampire legends survive in Romania and the Balkans, where Dracula is set, as well as in China, Scotland, Turkey and elsewhere.

A vampire is one of the dead who has a body like a human's, rises from the grave and sucks the blood of the living to steal their life force. Vampires are easily confused with werewolves, incubi, demons and the like. But they differ from werewolves in being dead rather than living and in drinking blood rather than eating human flesh, and they differ from incubi and demons in having originally been human. Some hold that a vampire's soul is a demon that has entered a corpse, but it is generally held to be the dead person's own soul returned to its body.

A vampire is an undead monster, a human corpse that moves. This is clear from the way Dracula sleeps in his coffin by day. Having lived for ages, vampires are highly knowledgeable and can use powerful magic. The magic an ordinary vampire uses lets it change its own shape into a bat or a wolf, or charm (CHARM) members of the opposite sex. The story of vampires charming humans can be found in the novel Dracula.

What sets vampires apart from the other supernatural creatures of darkness is that vampires must drink the blood of living beings to survive. To them blood is a precious fluid that symbolizes life force, and losing it means mortal danger.

The "Treatise on Apparitions" by the 18th-century Benedictine monk Augustin Calmet contains a wealth of material on vampires. Legends of vampires and accounts of real cases have long been known, but in modern times the subject was taken up mainly by the writers of the Romantic school. J.W. Goethe, Nodier, Gogol and others wrote stories about vampires, but the best known is B. Stoker's horror novel "Dracula". Vampires are said to fear the cross and garlic, and it was believed that to destroy a vampire - an accursed evil spirit that cannot pass on to the next world even in death - one had to drive a stake into its heart, cut off its head and burn the corpse.

