The historical figure who most resembles a vampire is Vlad Tepes, prince of Wallachia, an old kingdom now part of Romania. Vlad had two nicknames: one was Tepes (the Impaler), the other Dracula (a diminutive of his father's name, Dracul, meaning devil or dragon; in the West the dragon is a beast of ill omen).

Vlad the Impaler, rumored to be the ancestor of the Dracula legend, ruled a small principality called Wallachia. Born around 1430, he spent most of his life fighting the Turks and was always brave and resourceful.

Yet he was also one of the rare monsters of history. His greatest pleasure was watching a human life slowly ebb away. There must have been sexual pleasure in it too. In 1457, after a lightning raid into Transylvania, Dracula the Impaler seized many prisoners, men and women alike, and carried them off to Wallachia. His aim was to amuse himself to the full by impaling them. A wooden stake was inserted from below into the anus or a woman's genitals, so that the condemned was left hanging on top of the stake. The stake slowly worked its way into the body under the victim's own weight. He ordered that the tips of the stakes must not be sharpened, for only then would the condemned live longer. Around 1460, when a policy dispute arose with a group of Saxon merchants, he had them impaled en masse. Not only that, he had 400 apprentices burned alive. Impalings were staged as entertainment at mealtimes. Once a Russian nobleman, sickened by the smell of blood, held his nose, which displeased Vlad. The nobleman was at once impaled on an especially long stake. Vlad was angered to see so many beggars and sick people in his lands. He invited them all to a feast, locked them all inside the building and set it on fire. Vlad spent 12 years in confinement in Hungary. During that time he could not indulge in impaling as much as he liked, so he amused himself by torturing animals. Vlad the Impaler lost his life in battle against the Turks in 1476, reportedly killed by his own side.

A 15th-century publication from Nuremberg, Germany, also describes Vlad IV as follows.
"Vlad IV of Wallachia is Prince Dracula, the bloodthirsty impaler of men. This fiendish Prince Dracula cruelly impaled living people through the back on stakes of wood or iron, then cut off their hands and feet, tore out their hair and hacked their whole bodies to pieces. He boiled their heads in great cauldrons and made their flesh into roast ham, fed the bodies of children to their mothers, and fed the limbs of soldiers hewn off with axes to their comrades, delighting in it all. Countless dismembered bodies of men and women lay strewn across the garden, and the stench of blood was suffocating. Those impaled alive were set up in rows outside the castle to become food for birds and dogs. Truly the incarnation of a fiend, Prince Dracula had the perverse habit of enjoying his meals while gazing upon this hellish scene."
