65 19
 In July 2000, strange activity was detected in the region of 'Helea', north of 'Edonia', capital of the Republic of 'Eslania' in Europe. Vampires had appeared.  According to reports from an informant who infiltrated the region, they are searching for something, and, regrettably, these vampires are able to move about unaffected by sunlight.
 Astonishingly, at the same time the vampire Masters once scattered across the world are gathering in this region. Every one of them was worshipped as a god by the vampires. We do not know why they are gathering here, but their appearance has put us all on edge.
 The Eslanian government had received reports of monsters appearing in the area and sent in government troops, but the firepower of their regular army was nowhere near enough. Once they learned that the monsters were vampires, they sealed off the area and clamped down on the press. For a country that earns most of its income from tourism, rumors like that would be fatal.
 Eslania's Prime Minister Miserovich asked the Pope for help, and the Pope turned to us. Our leadership, already uneasy about the Masters' movements, secretly sent in a few agents, but we have lost contact with them and can wait no longer. So this time every Slayer who can be mustered is being committed to this operation. With the press silenced and the area sealed off, conditions could not be better for us to operate. From now on we no longer have to hunt vampires in hiding. This is our chance to show what we can do.
 Now for the regional briefing.

 Country: Eslania
 Location: Southeastern Europe
 Area: 152,100 sq Km
 Borders: 2451 Km
 Coastline 145Km
 Territorial waters: 12 nautical miles
 Population: 5,133,567 (as of 1998)
 Capital: Edonia
 Official languages: Russian, Eslanian, English
 Illiteracy rate: 2%
 Ethnic groups: Eslanian 94%, Russian 3%, Hungarian 2%, German 1%
 Religion: Greek Orthodox 64.8%, Catholic 31.2%, Protestant 4%
 Independence: 1992.12.30
 Constitution: adopted 92.12, second amendment 98.3,
 Government: parliamentary cabinet system
 Head of state: President Constantine (age 71, in office since 1999.5.13)
 Prime Minister: Miserovich (age 58, in office since 2000.4.1)
 Real power: Prime Minister Miserovich
 Legislature: bicameral (Senate 104 seats, House 294 seats, 4-year terms)
 Parties: Christian Democrats, Social Democrats, Liberals, Eslan Democratic Alliance
 Political orientation: center-right
 UN membership: 1998.12.14
 G.D.P.: $61.6 billion (1999), per capita G.D.P: $12,000
 Currency: Eis
 Defense budget: $ 81.6 million (1999)
 Armed forces: Army 11,300, Navy 10,000, Air Force 31,200 ('99)

 Eslania is one of the small ethnic nations that won independence when the Soviet Union collapsed. Even before the collapse it was long famous as a tourist destination, thanks to its closeness to Western Europe, its beautiful scenery and its graceful Greek Orthodox architecture. That is why it is said to be the richest of the small Eastern European countries. Because of that wealth Russia did not want to let it go and kept troops stationed there, but Eslania used its riches to hire foreign mercenaries and won its independence after a bloody struggle.
 It was once heavily influenced by the Soviet Union, but it gained independence along with Ukraine, Croatia and others.  It has a typical Eastern European climate. And since 90% of the country is mountainous, the days are short.
 Eslania is divided into four regions around the capital Edonia: Helea, Misero, Ukria and Donau. Helea, the area of this operation, is known for its rugged mountains and scenery,  but it lies so deep in the interior that few people go there. Most of the inhabitants do not live off tourism either; they get by with slash-and-burn farming and the like.
 As you would expect, the inhabitants are poorly educated, and their standard of living is the lowest in Eslania.  It is a common thing in countries that depend on tourism. Money pours into one famous tourist spot and creates an imbalance, leaving the rest of the country behind in development and living standards.
 The region is large, but there is almost no flat land, so there are only five villages that can hardly be called towns. It seems the vampires appeared around these very villages. They are only about 200Km from the capital, but the mountains are rugged and the roads poor, so it is like another world.  That seems to be why it was so easy to seal off the area and silence the press.
 The villages lie about 10 Km apart from one another. There are five in all: the town of 'Eslanian' in the center,  'Eldarian' to the west, 'Galmasian' to the east, 'Andarasian' to the south,  and 'Edenian' to the north.
 Putting together the intelligence so far, the Masters are slipping into the area one after another. They are said to rest in lairs prepared by their servants while making those servants search for something. Their lairs reportedly surround the villages. The problem is that all thirteen of them have gathered. Not once in the records of those who came before us have all thirteen Masters gathered in one place. We do not know what they are looking for, but it must be very important, and it seems to be what lets the vampires of the area move about in daylight. If so, it must be something tremendous, for the vampires and for us alike. Your mission is to seize whatever it is the Masters are looking for and, if possible, to bring down the Masters as well.
 Headquarters are currently set up in the government offices of each village. As always, all weapons and equipment will be airlifted directly to the field. Maps and other materials are to be obtained on site. When you finish the briefing and go out the exit, Jacques will take you to the plane. No acting alone; move in groups as much as possible... Many local residents are known to have already fallen victim and turned into vampires. But many people are still trapped, unable to get out because the area is sealed off. Keep in mind that their safety is part of your mission too... Help as many of them as you can. They are people who will be a great help to you in return. I hope you will make sure no one ever again has to wander homeless, having lost house and family to vampires.
 This time you are not up against one or two vampires; you will be facing them in enormous numbers. So be especially careful this time...  And if you should be bitten by a vampire, then according to our code ..... you will take your own life... Good luck.
